Here thar be monsters.  You can probably learn most about them 
by playing the mod, but if you hunger for additional detail 
then here it is.

S P A W N F L A G S

32: SPAWN_ANGRY - The monster will be angry when target spawned.
64: SPAWN_TRIGGERED - the monster will not appear until targeted.
128: SPAWN_SILENT - will not play teleport effects when spawning.


M O N S T E R I N F O S

monster_ogre_marksman / monster_ogre
Only mentioned since marksmen will not jump if touching a 
trigger_monsterjump that is flagged as MELEE_ONLY, whilst the
other will.  Also, ogres have 4 skins of various degrees of
Enforcer style armour on.  Give them the keyvalue "skin" and a
number of 0-3 to choose one.  The head will be properly skinned
as well, if it is gibbed.

monster_ogreb
A base fiend replacement, although with much less health and 
much slower.  However, he does have the ability of knocking
the player around the place with each hit, useful near 
environmental hazards and just for disorientating them.

monster_mr_big
This guy was never finished, instead he was the prototype for
the hunter.  Don't use him.

monster_fish
Smaller than the massive id1 version.

monster_tarbaby
The following spawnflags make the monster twice as big with
each sucessive one.  They also make it split into two of the
smaller versions when killed.
Spawnflags 4: CHILD
Spawnflags 8: PARENT
Spawnflags 16: ANCIENT
The larger versions are able to spit eyes at the player, move 
slower and have more health.  When killed they launch a load
of bouncing eyes around the place.

Additionally, if you place a misc_tarbox and it takes 10 or 
more damage it will break, unleashing the angry monster.

monster_floyd
I gave these a new idle pose when turned off - they'll squat
down, the outer shell covering their feet.  I just thought it
made them look funny, like a bin.

monster_hunter
A base Shambler class enemy.  It fires a rapid scattering of 
tiny rocket type plasma blasts and can punch up close, which
will knock victims back.  Hitting it with DBS (up close), LG, 
or explosives can blow one of its arms off, the probability 
of this happening being skill dependent.  It will explode a
lot after a duration when killed, which is worth bearing in
mind.