This guide explains the working of the new entity types and additions 
to the old ones.  It is assumed you already know basic Quake mapping 
terms like keyvalue, target and so on.  If you get stuck, ask on the 
func_messageboard RRP thread: 
http://www.celephais.net/board/view_thread.php?id=61077&start=228

The supplied .fgd file will let you map for the mod, although it has 
some bad entries.


T R I G G E R S

"is_waiting" "1" 
All triggers that are given this keyvalue and value for it will not work 
until they are targeted by another entity.  This is a very 
powerful level of control to have in a map for repopulating, 
triggering new events and so on.


Spawnflags 2: No Telefrag Touch
Spawnflags 4: Only Telefrag Touch
These should be pretty self explanatory and are related to the 
telefrag status effect.  Basically, a play with or without the 
status effect can or cannot touch triggers correspondingly flagged. 
These can be applied to all triggers.


trigger_checkpoint
forces a quicksave when touched, only works 
once.  Can also fire a target if given a "target" keyvalue and have
the various other controls like is_waiting and spawnflags applied.


trigger_ladder
Straight from Rubicon2, allows the player to ascend by jumping when
touched. Set angle field to direction the player is facing when climbing. (0-360 degrees)
Can be is_waiting too.(see above)


trigger_telefrag
activates the telefrag status effect on the player when touched.
Will not affect a player who already has the effect.  If it has the
spawnflag 1 (MEDBAY) set then it will remove the effect instead of
applying it.

Whilst telefragged the player cannot jump (much), is weaponstripped,
loses all ammo, cannot collect items (apart from backpacks) and
monsters must be closer in order to see the player.

Additionally, a Megahealth or Ward of Ressurection item pickup will
heal the player and remove the telefragged status effect.


trigger_void
Kills and removes things that touch it.  Does not use the other 
controls - it just works as a removal trigger without any advanced
logic behind it.


trigger_command
Used to send a stuffcmd console command to the engine.  For example
"fog 1\n" would turn the fog on.  Note that the newline \n command 
is applied at the end - this is to avoid bad things from happening.

Console commands are not saved across respawns, so don't rely on
this for anythign important.

For a list of console commands, check here:
http://quake.wikia.com/wiki/Cheats_and_Console_Commands

Or the func_messageboard mapping help thread.


trigger_monsterjump
Spawnflag 1 ONLY_ENRAGED - Monsters will only jump (or more, 
accurately, be pushed) when injured.  This is buggy and tends to 
work the instant before a monster is killed.

Spawnflag 2 ONLY_MELEE - will not push the following monsters:
monster_shalrath
monster_enforcer
monster_army
monster_zombie
monster_floyd
monster_hunter
monster_ogre_marksman
Note that it will push the other ogre types, and the Dreadnaught.  
This is useful since you can get melee enemies out of useless 
positions and give the hordes a slight semblance of intelligence.




R O T A T I N G S

These are the ones taken from hipnotic. Further info here:
http://tomeofpreach.wordpress.com/quoth/tutorial/rotation-overview/



R A N D O M I S E R S

This is legacy code that will break if used in large maps. 

It allows you to place a group of info_location entities which are
controlled by a single info_groupleader.  All the entities to be 
randomised will appear on one of the info_location spots, 
inheriting its position and orientation.  The amount of entites
which will be placed is defined by the groupcount keyvalue, 
which is applied to the groupleader.

All entities must have the same "group" keyvalue which needs a
string entry.

Monsters and items can both be randomised.




I T E M S
There are various new global controls for items.  You'll also 
notice that there are slightly improved bsp models for some of 
the ammo boxes.

Spawnflag 32 DONT_DROP - The item will hang in the air and not 
drop to floor.  Can be used for floating items like in DM or
to fix items falling out of the level due to geometry proximity.

Spawnflag 64 TRIGGER_SPAWN - The item will not appear until 
targeted by another entity.  This means it will need a 
targetname.

Spawnflag 128 - SILENT_RESPAWN - The item will not make the 
respawn sound when reappearing.  Means applying the respawn 
value, see below.

Respawning items use the following keyvalues:
"ritem" "1" - makes the item respawn after it is collected.
"respawndelay" - how many seconds should pass before the item
respawns.  This is the default 20 seconds of Quake DM items if
not set.
"respawncount" - By default unlimited, if this is set then the
item will not respawn more times than this number.

item_circuitboard
This colelctable does nothing on its own, but can be combined 
with various other entities to give the illusion of a special key
type.

weapon_axe and weapon_shotgun
These are included so that they can be collected by a player who
was telefragged (and therefore weaponstripped).

item_artifact_res
Effectively a portable medkit.  If one is carried and the player
reduced to less than 25 health then it will be activated, healing
the player up to full health over a duration.  It will also be
consumed in the process.  Carrying multiple ones has no benefit.





E V E N T S

trigger_shake
This causes an earthquake, which is strongest at its epicentre.

"dmg"		Strength of shake, default 120
"wait"		Duration of shake, default 1
"count"		radius of shake, default 200
"noise"		Start sound
"noise1"	End sound

Spawnflag 1 is VIEWONLY, meaning it will not shake you, just your
vision.

event_meltdown
Will kill all players and turn the lights out after a delay. Can be
toggled off if re-targeted.
"wait" time before killing everyone
"noise" Non looping alarm sound to play
"delay" Time between alarm sounds.




H A Z A R D S A N D T R A P S

fx_beam
creates a lightning bolt which does heavy damage.
"count" will automatically turn off after this many seconds. By
default will just wait to be toggled off by being targeted again.

fx_explosion
Explodes when targeted.  Spawnflag 1 = EXPLOBOX (big) and 
spawnflag 4 = TARBABY (blue effect).

func_water
Sorry, it's buggy and doesn't work so well.  Not recommended for
use.

func_togglewall
A very versatile item.  Basically moves itself outside the the 
world when targeted.  You can use this to make force fields, 
death traps, appearing rubble or dissapearing walls.
Can be toggled on/off multiple times.
Spawnflags 1: START OFF - Must be toggled on
Spawnflags 8: SEEABLE - Is visible (otherise it works only as
collision)
"noise" - sound to play when turned off
"noise1" - sound to play when turned on
"noise2" - sound to play when touched
"dmg" - Damage caused when touched.
"wait" - Delay between damagings

trap_spikeshooter
Just a mention that these can have spawnflag 4, which will make
the lasers blue like a floyd's.  This is just a cosmetic change.

